---
layout: post
title: About You
date: 2025-12-24 21:05 -0600
categories: [Meaning]
tags: [self-reference]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

<script>
function revealFact() {
  // Update the text
  document.getElementById("curiosity-text").innerHTML = "You clicked the button!";
  
  // Hide the button after use
  document.getElementById("reveal-btn").style.display = "none";
}
</script>

#  Introduction

This is a page all about you. I thought it would be a nice change of pace since most blog posts are about me the author. You might be wondering... what could I possibly know? Just to be clear, I don't know your name or date of birth as this website does not collect personal data. I don't track users or collect information that could tell me who exactly is reading this post or visiting this site. Even so, I still know quite a bit about you the reader even before I published this article.

To start, here are nine basic facts about you...

1. You exist.
2. You can see.
3. You are literate.
4. You understand English.
5. You have access to the internet.
6. You are using a computer.
7. You are looking at a screen.
8. You probably know me (James Boyer) personally.

And given that you are reading this article...

<ol start="9">
  <li>You have far too much time on your hands.</li>
</ol>

Most of these are comically trivial. However, given there are roughly [1.18 billion English internet users](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_used_on_the_Internet#Internet_users_by_language) and around 8.3 billion humans total, narrowing you down the options to 14% of the global human population isn't nothing.

By adding in a few twists, I can know a few more things about you.

For example...

1. Puedes leer Español.
2. Eres bilingüe.

For those less familiar with Spanish, the first fact claims that you speak spanish and the second that you are billingual. These claims work whether or not they actually apply to you because only Spanish speakers can understand them in the first place. The messages only make sense to readers for which the claims actually apply! I have decided to call such statements `Self-Selecting Messages`. Generally, `Self-Selecting Messages` are messages where the content of the message is related to the conditions needed to understand the message thus ensuring the truth of the message. What types of `Self-Selecting Messages` could exist?

# Linguistic Self-Selection

We've already seen how one can self-select for linguistic ability such as understanding English or Spanish. Here are a few more in this vein.

1. You can raed sbdemlracd wdros!
2. !ƨbɿɒwʞɔɒd bɒɘɿ nɒɔ uoY
3. ¡uʍopǝpᴉsdn pɐǝɹ uɐɔ no⅄
4. Fvb jhu kljvkl h jhlzhy jpwoly!
5. Ouyay understandyay igpay atinlay!
6. /juː kæn ɹiːd aɪpiːeɪ/

And finally, I'm not exactly sure who this one is selecting for....

<ol start="7">
  <li>⠠⠽⠀⠋⠨⠙⠀⠁⠀⠺⠁⠽⠀⠞⠕⠀⠞⠗⠁⠝⠎⠇⠁⠞⠑⠀⠃⠗⠇⠀⠐⠡⠎⠖</li>
</ol>

Websites also provide a unique opportunity for `Self-Selecting Messages` beyond simple encodings.

# Websites Self-Selection

Consider the following...

1. <small><small><small><small><small><small><small><small><small><small><small><small>You zoomed in your screen.</small></small></small></small></small></small></small></small></small></small></small></small>
2. You are between 6" and 36" from a screen.
3. Your URL is `LinearDigressions.gihub.io/posts/about-you`

This last one is very similar to the "You are here!" indicators on outdoor maps. We can also add a few that require Javascript and CSS[^1].

<ol>
  <li>
    <span class="mobile-detect">You are reading this on a phone or tablet.</span>
    <span class="desktop-detect">You are reading this on a computer.</span>
  </li>
  <li>
    <span id="curiosity-text"></span>
    <button id="reveal-btn" onclick="revealFact()">Click Here</button>
  </li>
  <li>You live in <span id="location"></span>. (Uses IP address)
</li>
  <!-- 4. You read the HTML source! And know how to use the developer view! -->
</ol>

To explain the last one, whenever you use a website, your device must have sent over your IP address to this website's webserver thus revealing your general physical location. Readers are not truely anonymous even if you haven't explictly handed over personal data to a website. Can you find one more secret self-selecting message related to HTML?

# Knowledge Self-Selection

`Self-Selecting Messages` can also identify the degree of expertise or interest of the reader. For example, if you have made it this far into the article, you are probably genuinely interested in the topic! If you know me personally, message me directly that you found this and I'll give you a reward of $5! This technique is not unheard of in contracts to detect whether users actually read the terms and conditions ([News Article for Insurance Company](https://www.insurancejournal.com/news/national/2019/03/07/519879.htm)). Google also has a self-selecting interview process called [Foobar](https://www.turing.com/kb/foobar-google-secret-hiring-technique) where if a user repeatedly searches certain terms then a special link will appear that takes them to a programming challenge.

One can also write messages that self-select for readers who understand certain concepts. As a few examples...

1. There are two types of people in the world. Those who can extrapolate from incomplete data.
2. There are 10 types of people in the world. Those who understand binary and those who do not.

# Character Self-Selection

One could imagine `Self-Selecting Messages` in the space of clickbait quizzes. Here are a few ideas I came up with for tests that select their own participants. One doesn't even need to evaluate the answers! Each test should be able to return the same result every time.

1. Click here to find out if you are gullible!
2. This one simple question will reveal if you are insecure!
3. Pay $20 to instantly find out if you are a financial genius!
4. Answer these 100 questions to determine if you are good at time management!
5. How good are you at detecting clickbait?

While these quizzes seem silly, self-selection has real world consequences on the internet. For example, scammers will often deliberately include spelling errors in their emails to self-select for only the most gullible of respondents ([Microsoft Paper](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/WhyFromNigeria.pdf))

In the next post, we'll see how one can use `Self-Selecting Messages` to create `Self-Regulating Messages`. 

[^1]: You read footnotes!
<style>

.mobile-detect, .desktop-detect { display: none; }

@media (max-width: 768px) { .mobile-detect { display: block; } }
@media (min-width: 769px) { .desktop-detect { display: block; } }

/* #reveal-btn {
    margin-left: 10px;
    padding: 2px 10px;
    cursor: pointer;
    border-radius: 4px;
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
    background: #f0f0f0;
    color: #333;
  } */
</style>

<script>


fetch("https://ipapi.co/json/")
  .then(res => res.json())
  .then(data => {
    document.getElementById("location").textContent =
      `${data.region}`;
  })
  .catch(() => {
    document.getElementById("location").textContent =
      "Location unavailable";
  });


document.querySelectorAll('a[href^="http"]').forEach(link => {
  if (!link.href.startsWith(location.origin)) {
    link.setAttribute('target', '_blank');
    link.setAttribute('rel', 'noopener noreferrer');
  }
});

</script>

